joining me now in the studio is Mustafa
bouti the Secretary General of the
Palestinian national initiative party
thank you for joining the program Mr
buti so I wanted to start by getting
your reaction to these new measures that
have been introduced by the icj in order
to get more food Aid into Gaza do you
think it's going to make a difference
the situation on the ground it's an
important step and it should be followed
actually by another uh resolution uh to
enforce uh complete and total cessation
of all military activities by Israel
which means an order from the
international court of justice demanding
immediate ceasefire in the language that
they usually use which is secession of
military activities or or hostile
activities uh I think this is now uh
very important to achieve and uh I think
this would have an impact at uh at many
levels but it is clear that Israel will
not stop unless sanctions are imposed on
Israel unless punitive acts are taken to
force Israel to stop Netanyahu wants to
proceed with this terrible war and he is
now even promising a EI even a much
bigger Massacre by attacking
grafa the reaction from the
International Community to the last icj
ruling which was back in January was
muted in fact the day after the focus of
many countries was on pulling funding
out of
are you disappointed in how the
International Community has reacted to
the events in Gaza of course we are
disappointed especially by Western
governments and especially by the United
States which by the way tried to even
mute the most recent decision of the
security Council resolution by creating
a debate about whether it is obligatory
or not obligatory I mean and and this
was not part of any discussion of course
any Security Council resolution obliges
all members of the United Nations to
implement it or to respect it United
States is playing a game here and
continues to support Israel and of
course uh that has created a very
dangerous moment at the International
Community this particular uh aggression
by Israel this particular genocide that
Israel is practicing and the fact that
so many Western governments are
providing protection to Israel allowing
it to continue is going to disturb the
whole International order it simply
sends a message to the world that there
is no more international law that's very
dangerous we did finally see a vote pass
at the UNC calling for a ceasefire uh
does that give you hope though that that
something has changed just a little bit
that the International Community is now
finally starting to wake up to what is
happening in Gaza yes but what gives me
hope really are not these governments
that have been so lazy and so much
delaying the decisions they should they
should have made five months ago but
what gives me hope is the people of the
world the people who forced many
governments to change their position the
public pressure that made Canadian
government suspend and stop supplying
Israel with military equipment the same
public pressure that is taking place now
in Britain and France and Europe
everywhere in the world and that public
pressure in my opinion will lead now to
wide range of sanctions and uh and
punitive act against acts against Israel
sanctions and boycot this is what worked
in the case of South Africa and this is
what would work in the case of Israel
and look at what's happening there they
are having some sort of collapse
internally they are even unable to make
decisions because the world is fed up
with their
crimes you are from Gaza originally uh I
believe you've already lost some family
uh during the course of this I'm from
West Bank not from Gaza but but you have
family in in Gaza U apologies how how do
you feel when you look at the images on
the screen of the children that are now
starving uh and the suffering that
people have endured how do you look at
it all and and take it in it's beyond
shock uh this morning I was talking to
my colleagues we have 32 Medical Teams
working there uh one of of them was
describing to me what happened they've
been besieged for 11 days by Israeli
tanks his brother was killed the
children of his brother were killed he
had to take uh a big risk by running
away from his house and he told his
children either we will be die while we
are staying here because they are
bombarding us or let's take the risk and
run away he told me horrible stories
about families being burned inside
houses completely burned at killed
families totally
eliminated 23 one family lost 23 another
116 another the whole place around shifa
hospital is completely destroyed now
it's very huge pain because the people
who are dying are people I know uh some
of them are people I've worked with some
of them have have done wonderful work in
their life to help their own people and
now they're dying and what hurt most is
that I was talking to one journalist
whom whom I didn't speak to for about
since the beginning of the war and I was
happy to hear his voice and I asked him
how are you doing and he said you know
I'm okay I lost my wife and my child and
I said oh I'm very sorry I feel very
sorry for that he said it's all right
many others have lost more people it's
really so painful to hear such a thing
or to see that baby who is 5 years old
who lost both of his hands asking his
father father will my hands grow again
when I grow up this is the kind of
atrocity and the kind of suffering that
many leaders in the world refuse to see
and sometimes I ask myself have they
lost any ability to feel the Pains of
others Mr bakti Secretary General of the
Palestinian national
initiative initiative party thank you
for your time thank
you